(soothing music)
With all the buzz surrounding the year 2012,
I decided to check in with our wise woman astrologer,
Jessica Murray, once again.
Jessica is not a predictive astrologer.
Rather, she evaluates the overall trends that are set
into motion under the larger astrological alignments.
In this sense, 2012 has some major alignments
that would put it alongside the Mayan and Hopi calendars
in the profundity of the times.
Jessica, it's so good to see you.
I mean, I saw you in 2010, and I saw you before that.
This is the first time in 2011,
and here we are on the last few days of the year,
and I thought we'd start out by talking about,
just for a couple minutes,
'cause I know we have a lot to talk about about 2012.
2011, what were some of the hallmarks
that you were expecting at the beginning of the year,
and what did you actually see happen?
It's so funny because I just reread
this woman who asks me to do a little rundown
of the year to come every year,
and it's on the web,
and of course I always qualify that I don't do predictions.
I just am in the kind of astrology that looks at trends
and energy streams that could go any number of ways,
depending on the consciousness of the person,
of the group, but I still saw what every astrologer saw,
which is that the Uranus in the sky,
which is the planet of revolution and abrupt disruption,
and Pluto in the sky, which is a planet of breakdown,
destruction, crunching down to bare bones
so that something else can be born.
We've all known for years
that these two planets were gonna be
in this acute angle called a square, 90 degrees apart,
and so everyone was talking about,
all astrologers were talking about
governmental systems were going to be
threatened in terms of their verticality.
This is what Capricorn, the sign Pluto is in,
is really about, is the type of authoritative system
that goes in a ladder, vertical, top-down.
So you can think of patriarchy does that,
and the kind of corporate structures
that we assume is the only way to manage things,
they do that.
The vertical type of
managing people in society,
Capricorn, was going to be abruptly challenged
by forces, and Uranus is in Aries,
the sign of activism.
Mmm.
And then we got, right at the autumn equinox,
when the square was tipped off,
astrologers had been waiting for it.
You know, the progressive movement had been waiting for it,
the left had been waiting for it.
The one-percenters have been dreading it.
And it all came about, even to the point
of the Occupy Wall Street people making
a very stringent point about,
they were cutting down the verticality
to a horizontality.
Yes.
With their wonderful general
assemblies.
I've heard
literal response to the times.
Human mic.
And they talked about it, in terms of horizontalism.
So that, it was so delightful to see
something erupt that cleaves so tightly
to the symbolism,
Yes.
in the sky.
There's another thing going on and that is,
you and I sat together right when
Pluto went into Capricorn and astrologists were
talking about the banking system is
going to show it's colors.
It's different than a straight collapse.
The collapse was of, really of denial.
It's not that it just started,
that Wall Street just started to do those tricks in 2008.
But what happened was it broke through the crust
of public awareness.
And we knew that a certain number of
years after that was going to be the next
step for that to happen.
And, of course, 2011 set it up
for reasons I won't bore you with,
in terms of specific
aspects in the sky.
And 2012 will be the next
radical upping of the ante
about the banks, about monetary systems.
So that uh,
in a nutshell we have seen all of that
come to pass thus far,
and I think you've already captured
people's curiosity here,
because this is the next thing I wanted
to discuss with you.
We've also released another little video this month
that could have some profound impacts,
or it could be, we have to wait and see
how much truth is in it.
But it was stating that
there is a new system of economy
that is behind the scenes.
Has been formed behind the scenes,
is going to be rising to our consciousness,
that is going to radically change
the way banking is done.
And the world economy's interact with each other
and with human beings.
Yeah.
And so, what are you seeing
in that same world?
There are two exact hits, as we say,
of this angle up in the sky this year,
and it's Pluto's square,
that all the astrologies are hopped up about.
And we have been waiting for it for years,
really since the mid-60s,
when these two planets conjoin in the sky.
We've been waiting for the other shoe to drop.
That's how big it is, that's how rare it is.
And world-altering, a transit like this is.
The first two hits of 'em are coming in 2012
and from Western Astrology's point of view,
that's what puts 2012 on the map, mostly.
You know, the Hopi prophecies and the Mayan tradition
have their point of view.
And, of course, none of us think that it's an accident
that all these different wisdom path traditions
tend to line up around this calendar year.
But from Western Astrology's point of view,
we're looking at the June 24th exactitude.
And one in September.
Mind you, we don't look at those exact dates
as meaning that you're going to
wake up in the morning and some event's
gonna happen.
But there's kind of like an epicenter in time.
And when they hit, that's when we
expect the intensity to probably show up
in events, or at the next full moon.
So all these things are tracked out
in a very technical way.
But this is when also Venus does
an interesting, very rare thing called an occultation.
Venus governs money.
And it is associated in mundane astrology
with banking.
And there is, a kind of supporting meaning, therefore,
that the Venus occultation will also,
which is in early June of 2012,
have something to do with it because
the last time it did something like this,
they happen in pairs eight years apart,
was 2004.
2008 was the midpoint of the one
that's happening this year and the one
that happened then.
And 2008, is associated, therefore, with astrologers,
by astrologers, with this banking cataclysm, too.
And so, June is cracking up to be
a very important month to 2012,
from many points of view.
And it's right in the middle.
So if we could think of time, as if it were spacial,
and then you kind of drop a pebble in water
and it ripples out like that,
that's the way my kind of astrology looks at time.
So this is a very big deal.
We don't know specifically,
we never know specifically what it's gonna mean.
But we know by the rarity of something,
that it's gonna be world-altering.
Interesting.
And you can tell where the cracks
in the system already exist,
that there will be additional stress applied
in those areas, so maybe we only need to
look around to where the stress fractures
already are and that'll give us an idea of
what may be coming?
Yeah, but I think from the point of view of
humanistic astrology what we look at
more than that, is what it means.
In the big picture, in kind of the esoteric
level of meaning of this.
It's about value.
And there's a wonderful thinker,
he's a professor of something in Austin.
Have you ever heard of Robert Jensen?
No, I don't think I have.
University of Texas?
I don't believe I have, no.
He has a stunningly beautiful YouTube video
on how the value of the human being has
been degenerated.
He's not an astrologer,
but I was watching his lecture,
and he hit all the points that these transits
in the sky, imply.
So this whole notion of value.
Another layer of it is that,
Venus in the USA charge,
is being opposed by Venus.
And has been since 2008.
Now, we, in this materialistic culture
tend to equate value with material value.
And that's not to be dismissed.
That suggests that for this populous,
it probably will manifest that way,
because these are the terms that the
mass mind understands it on.
So I'm thinking with the Venus of the,
in the USA chart, I especially look
at America's karma,
because it's very closely tied in
with the Uranus-Pluto square.
I talk about it in my book.
Yeah, Soul-Sick Nation, yes.
I have the USA chart in that book to show
you that, what is already an incredibly tense
configuration in the sky,
two planets that have a, you know,
a 90 degree angle.
When it's opposed upon the US natal chart,
the entity born July 4th, 1776,
it becomes what we call a grand cross,
which is the most stressful configuration in astrology.
So I do think that the USA is going to be
a major player,
in this breakdown slash renewal,
that has to happen.
I do think that populous movements,
I mean, this is what I said in those quote, unquote,
"predictions" that I was just reading the other day,
that I wrote, before there was anything,
before there was any whiff of a genuine, radical uprising
like we've seen with mostly young people from Occupy.
The activism of it comes from the Aries.
The populous of it comes from Uranus,
which is the planet of democracy.
Pluto, no surprise, is the planet of plutocracy.
Indirectly opposing each other.
They're in conflict.
In conflict, yes.
They're squaring each other.
Yes.
So, we understand this, from what we see
everyday in the headlines, the Occupy movement
and also around the world, around the globe,
all over the countries in the Middle East.
China.
China, let's talk about China.
What a trip.
It has a configuration in Libra,
in it's chart, it's 1949 chart.
Which is exactly on the same degrees
of some of the planets in the USA chart.
It's being hit in the cross-hairs in a similar way.
And so we have, as we don't have to
be an astrologer to be able to see,
these two super powers, now
vying for supremacy, really.
China is kind of lined up to be, you know,
the big dog in the global hegemony department.
But there's so many contradictions between
what's going on in China.
Elaborate.
And the way that, at least Americans think about it,
I think that Americans are more politically,
GO politically, naive than most countries in the world.
I think that's fair to say.
But there's still kind of this
illusion left over from the Cold War years
that China is bad because it's communist,
and, of course, we know it's the most
rip-roaringly capitalist country in the world right now.
It's out-capitalisticing the USA by far.
And this business of disapproving.
You know how the mass mind thinks of China,
and how the idiots on the cable news shows
will play to these ideas that their Godless communists.
It's about 50 to 25 years behind,
in terms of the reality, the reality of power.
The reality of us being a trillion dollars
in hawk to them.
So when you see a country having an image,
in the collective consciousness that's so out of whack,
with what's happening economically,
you know that there's gonna be
a more painful rupture when
what has to happen, happens.
Which is that the reality's going to have to catch up
with the myths and the mass mind.
This is what's really going on, energetically,
with the Uranus-Pluto square.
As it, people's thinking are in a relatively
accelerated way, in various countries
at various speeds, but, globally
'cause we're all under the same sky.
These ideas that are now,
that are happening now,
the truth of what's happening now,
is going to break through all kinds of
national myths.
In a relatively sudden way.
And the relatively sudden comes
from the Uranus factor.
Uranus and Aries is,
is an abruptness.
Which, if we look at the last time
we had a transit like this in 1965, 66--
Times of revolution, yes.
Times of revolution and they happened,
it seemed like it happened in wild,
like a wildfire, without taking the years
to sort of,
move, percolate in the mass mind.
That's the kind of change we're looking at, here.
Now, we look at, we were talking about
the reality that many Americans suffer
from a type of denial or even delusion,
that is going to be shown to each one of us this year.
And we're going to be faced with our own
disinformation that we've been running through
our filters.
That's right.
Disinformation is what it is.
Yes.
So I do see a backlash coming.
And the American mass media is probably
the headquarters for this.
They are the organ for what,
the government, who are the organ
for the corporations,
want disseminated.
So I tell my students about working with
what we call the Neptune factor,
which is illusion, delusion,
and the kind of fear reactivity
that comes off of that.
So we say that Neptune governs fear,
but there are many types of fear.
And the type I'm talking about here,
has to do with sort of hopping on the bandwagon
of these stories that are pumped out,
mostly through the media, also through advertising,
which is also governed by Neptune.
Which, after all, governs hypnosis of all kinds.
And, you know, submersing, being immersed
like water, Neptune governs floods and,
water disasters is another issue we can talk about.
But when I think about the energy of flooding,
the energetic, non-literal expression of Neptune,
which begins the year conjunct the US moon,
which is the mass mood.
So that's why I'm particularly looking
at this country with it.
You see that there's almost a bewitching going on.
And a tendency to want to take the
easy path and go to sleep,
in terms of these nonsense issues that
the news talks about.
Yes.
While they are, meanwhile, completely
blacking out where the money really is.
Well, it's manufacturing a mindset
that is totally out of alignment with reality
on both sides.
If you take the preoccupation with the media,
for example, with infotainment,
you know, your news shows,
which are entertainment essentially.
The objective there seems to be
to enslave people to their emotions.
It projects the world as a much more
dangerous place, than if you were to
look at the statistics, it really is.
Well, I think it's going to crank up.
Well, yes, you're right.
And we look at the Neptune,
Mars spends an extraordinary eight months
in Virgo in 2012, which is just very unusual.
Is that painful?
It sounds
painful.
Well I'm looking
in terms of what we're talking about now.
It's going to hit that US Neptune,
and it's going to trigger the part of
the US consciousness,
which goes as a default to the distraction
that you're talking about.
To be distracted and fall into free-floating anxiety.
And Neptune is an emotional planet.
So it's interesting that the
intellect and the use of reason
is very difficult for the
collective entity that is the USA.
We have Saturn in Libra,
and it doesn't feel smart,
in terms of using reason
and accumulating facts.
But those are exactly the types of
things that people could do.
And we don't have to buy into
the collective hypnosis.
That's why, with a little boost from our will,
being rooted in our own individual chart,
in our own intelligence,
and our own sense of why we incarnated
in these tumultuous times.
You actually don't have to be rooted in that.
So I'm looking at kind of two different things here.
I'm looking at the default position that I think
will happen in the public consciousness.
And I'm also--
Which is to take the easy way out.
Yes, who aren't individualized.
Yes, to attempt to sleep through it.
They will not,
unfortunately, I think they'll react through it.
Because what I think will happen
with the Uranus-Pluto square,
is that the powers that be are
gonna give it their all.
They're going to forget this kindler, gentler plutocracy,
and just be straight up obvious Plutocrats.
So that, you know, the censorship of the internet,
which they haven't dared touch before,
so there's now something in Congress,
I'm sure you've heard
of it.
Yes.
Which is trying to use copyright regulations
to derive a blacklist.
And, you know, the Citizens United was
another thing that we saw.
Something like that would happen,
this horrible Supreme Court ruling that
made explicit what is always been implicit.
Which is that, corporations are people,
and are more valued than human beings.
So this idea that money is behind elections
is no longer somebody's rumor,
it became law.
And that, with the internet thing,
and there's also this unspeakable thing,
which so far, Obama has pledged to veto,
but we will see, that wants to,
do you want to say the word?
No, you go ahead.
Well we know those of us who want
to cleave to the constitution,
even the Magna Carta.
I mean, this idea that one is charged
with a crime before one is incarcerated,
and on US soil and a US citizen.
I mean, it's like saying yes to Guantanamo Bay
right here at home.
I think that these are signs of the Pluto factor,
as I call it, which is that the Plutocrats
taking off the gloves.
On the other hand, with this exactitude,
you know, the peaking of the intensity
of the forces of, really democracy
and plutocracy coming together
in a conflicting angle, the most conflicting
angle in astrology.
It's not gonna be a slam dunk for the Plutocrats.
There's going to be a lot more occupied-type protests.
You can't put those worms back in the can.
Yeah.
So I think that the meaning of it,
is that the systems we've got going
can't cope with the realities of the world right now.
And these
modest, little proposals that happened
when the G20 get together on climate change.
Which are about a third of what needs to happen.
And they're still being fought tooth and nail.
And China, as I've implied,
it really is also going to be in the cross-hairs
of what we call the cardinal cross,
this major transit.
It's not gonna get away with anything either.
So, I'm not, don't let your viewers take from this
that I'm saying it's gonna be the next
hegemon and it's gonna be the,
a slam dunk for them.
They have a lot of internal problems.
Because they're being presented
with very similar challenges.
Yes, and they're at a different place with it.
They have a crudeness about it.
And they're far ahead of us,
in terms of internet censorship,
but they have so many people that they can't
keep those worms in the can very well.
Here's what I want to say about China
before we leave that topic.
They are blinded
by the capitalistic
blood in the nostrils.
You know, they're just kind of going for it
without a lot of systemic, without any systemic
regulatory agencies in place.
And the way they're pumping out pollution,
everyone is tisk, tisking about it.
The interesting thing is they're also
the world leader in solar and sustainable.
I was just going to ask you about that, yes.
It's just a nest of ironies.
And we just learned
that they actually have, um,
they've embraced, um, cold fusion.
Yes.
And this is part of their energetic profile,
which is not in any
That's right.
other country, just yet.
It's so interesting, and we can say,
"Well, it's because they want to be
number one in everything, fine."
That's something to be number one in.
So, just to go to say, we have no idea
how that's gonna play out.
You know, Uranus is opposite their sun cluster.
And that Uranus is the planet of
anything can happen.
It governs unpredictability.
But I think that we can look at all these
shifts and cultural earthquakes ahead of us,
with a certain template in mind.
And one of them is,
that to understand what's going on,
we need to understand that this is kind of
a post-political world we're in,
post-ideological world.
That's an interesting way you put that.
I think that, astrologically, we would say that
what Capricorn governs, which is where Pluto,
the planet of breakdown is in, until 2023--
Which is more pragmatic, than idealistic.
Right.
Yeah.
What it governs in the mundane world
is financial systems and governments.
And I think we're seeing a collapse of those two areas.
So that it's a hybrid.
I think that 2012 is gonna be the year
where we cross the line.
So that it's, it's a post-ideological
geopolitics.
And be exposed
for being the coporatocracy that it is.
That's right, it's exposed.
100% they won't,
there will be no attempt to shield us
from that any longer.
That's what I see happening, but you know,
that's nowhere in the mass mind of the west,
in order to pander to the people
and cop votes.
Right.
Politicians still talk in terms of these
platitudes from the Cold War,
we're free, they're not.
And it's all about money.
The 2008 transits
burst that reality through
and stripped off the facade.
So it's going to be very difficult to keep
that line going, that it's about ideology anymore.
Yes, I think you're right on that.
What about some of the other anomalous
action that's going to be taking place?
I noticed that you had some notes,
and I was looking at one area that I thought
was interesting, because you were just
bringing this up with the politicians
and their platforms and so forth,
that when it comes to election day itself,
it's going to be happening
under Mercury in retrograde?
That very day.
And we know that
And it's not just
happening in the zone.
can be a very
challenging situation.
It happens three times a year
for about three
It's
extraordinary, right.
weeks.
So it's happening.
So let's talk
about that for a minute.
The last time I
know of, that it happened, was 2000.
And we know what a mess that was.
When somebody won, who had lost.
Yes, so that kind of event is the
hallmark of Mercury in retrograde.
Well, to have it stationed on that day
does make us raise our eyebrows.
Yeah.
But I think the way, you probably do also,
that
the purpose served by the big election game
is more a distraction for the American people, at least,
Yes.
than anything else.
And, I mean, the kind of things that Obama has done.
I hope he listens to his wealthy donors
on that pipeline, because they,
even the people who supported him last time with
big money, surrounded the White House, and protested.
It wasn't just scruffy occupiers.
And I do think that he'll pay attention
to where the money is,
if there's significant protests from the people.
But the business of making a big hue and cry
over the supposed difference between
Republicans and Democrats,
there needs to be a quantum leap in consciousness
in the American public, away from that story.
Which consumes an awful lot of time
and an awful lot of money.
I can barely listen to any of the
news outlets any longer.
Which is--
Playing this
charade, years before the election.
You have an election, a person is sworn in,
and then you're starting to get, already,
the campaign analysis for the next election.
It's just a game, a game of preoccupation.
You can only laugh at it now,
it's becoming so absurd.
It's totally absurd.
Did you see The Onion?
Do you read The Onion?
No, I didn't.
What did they do? Not lately.
It had to do,
it's a satirical newspaper that has a, um,
a foe headline about Herman Cain.
And it says something like,
candidate has to advocate, give up the election
as the one who, because of extramarital affairs.
This is the guy who didn't know that China
had nuclear weapons.
(laughing) Right.
It was his affairs that made him have to step down.
I mean, I keep thinking that
it's gonna become so absurd,
so irrelevant that it will
become obvious to more and more people.
But when I look at that Uranus in Aries,
I also see that,
it's only ever a small group of people, numerically,
that shake the rest awake.
It is if human consciousness works in a bell curve.
And there are only, in any epic like this,
and there really aren't that many in human history,
but in any epic, like in the 60s,
where there's this incredibly disturbing change in these,
the status queue is just fighting for it's life, really.
You're gonna have a, relatively, only a handful
of people, like the Occupiers.
But the brilliance of their message
to make a slogan of 99% and one.
Yes.
To make a case that it had nothing to do
with Democrat, Republican.
It had nothing to do,
let's just look at the numbers please.
Yes.
I thought that was
It is.
the most stunning.
Well done.
And to have them called unclear
and incoherent by the media, which really didn't know
what to do with them at first.
It's the most coherent battle cry
that we've ever heard.
We are the 99%.
How could that be more coherent?
Exactly to the point, which is what we expect from Pluto.
Well, and there are the few speaking
on behalf of the presumed 99%,
which is probably fair to say.
And yet, at the same time, what's it,
what's this year, we touched on it earlier,
but maybe to be, go into it a little bit more,
what is this you're going to do to those
who are not among the few that are up and active?
Right.
What is this year going to do?
It's a very good question.
You know, I,
it's a hard one to answer because
in the last analysis, I look at a person's chart,
and an astrologer will look at this
arrangement of planets when they were born,
as a template of what they can do,
of who they are,
and there's an inference there.
We infer from this abstraction of
different psychic components arranged
in just certain ways.
We infer from that, that their soul made a decision
to incarnate into this epic and none another.
And I think that people,
who even if all they knew about astrology is
people's sun signs, they would see that,
that is an assumption of this belief system.
I mean, you can't really get anything out of astrology
if you don't already, presume that there's a meaning
behind somebody being born in the spring
as a Taurus, instead of in the fall.
So, we can start there and realize
that the birth chart takes that idea
and makes it very much more complex,
so that there's also a meaning,
not just in what season your sun is in,
but in what era you were born in.
And what epic you come to adulthood in.
So that, for example, those of us
who were young adults in the 60s,
that, that was karmically ordained,
in terms of
our soul purpose.
And that was the
Pluto, Pluto generation?
Pluto and Leo
generation.
Yes, Pluto and Leo
But the
little babies who were born,
I'm looking at the Uranus and Pluto
together in the chart when I say this,
under those skies, they are in their prime now.
When Uranus and Pluto have moved into
this other relationship.
So trying to say something, whether complex,
in a simple way,
we would say that, to take responsibility
for the fact that there are certain skill sets
in each chart.
You know, and you don't have to be an astrologer
to look at these, the crisis of these times
and what do I do about 'em this way?
You can do it through self-actualization methods.
As long as your arm.
Every wisdom path there is
will lead you to the same place.
Which is, who am I at my essence?
And what is there about being born right now,
when this is happening?
So I do look at certain charts in these years,
and see wow.
That they seem to be singled out in a way
so that their own individual growth arc,
in a spiritual sense, matches,
you know, lines up very closely
with the collective evolutionary trajectory.
And those are the people,
who we would probably expect some
explicit kind of leadership with,
even in a anti-leadership movement, like OWS.
But the rest, it's not for everybody to
go out and, you know, camp in a city park.
And the, the knowing the self,
the self awareness, if you follow this line of logic,
will show you what the times want of you.
And if you're not in that place of looking inside
to know what your spiritual skill set is
and your practical skill set is,
and your natural proclivities are,
if you're not there, you're not gonna be
any good to anybody, in any epic, anyway.
Mmmhmm, very true.
So I would say to your viewers,
if you have your chart and you want to take this
one step further, there are some pivotal degrees
to look at.
One of them is the 15th degree of mutable signs.
If you have Gemini in your chart,
it might be hit by this occultation
of Venus, for example.
So I won't get too technical, but there are ways
to try to interpret by having your chart done,
to see--
Have somebody
confident as Cher you have these specific
feelings.
You'll be
feeling it anyway if you're in touch.
At least you can put
your mind over it for a deeper understanding,
rather than just
A deeper
understanding.
Rather than reacting.
Yeah.
And that's what I've been wanting
to say since you asked that question about Mars.
Mutable signs, in general, are going to be very
restless and pesky.
Needling.
You like, Virgo does it worst.
And if nagging--
Name the mutable signs for everyone.
Okay, Virgo, Gemini, Pisces,
where Chiron and Neptune are gonna be.
Sagittarius.
Now these are gonna be hit by Mars
in a natal chart, in the USA chart.
In fact, in January.
January 23rd, Mars is gonna
make a station at 23 Virgo.
It's gonna then come back later in the year,
and that's going to be right on top
of the USA Neptune.
And so this is kind, the kind of things
astrologers look at when we talk about,
for example, the smoke screens.
Neptune can be delusion,
as well as being lost in a beautiful, spiritual way.
It can mean being fogged in.
Like the Indian was in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,
when he took a drug and he imagined they
were fogging him in.
That's Neptune.
So the whole country has that going on.
And when we see, for example,
Mars is gonna station on it,
it's like Mercury stationing on election day.
A lot of astrologers start to make
predictions about that.
And what we can do,
to be on the right side of it,
is try to get back to the higher meaning
of these energies.
And not succumb really to that
default position you were talking about.
The higher meaning of that Neptune for the USA,
for example,
is a dreamy yearning for,
to be able to pour yourself into something meaningful.
It's Neptune in the ninth house of spiritual search.
And it's been all covered over and buried
and distracted by other parts of the chart,
which seem to put this
laser-like obsessive energy on money and material.
Pluto's in the second house of the USA chart.
Which, by the way, is going to peak in 2022.
We're gonna have a Pluto return, as a nation.
But, you know, the higher vibration of
each of these planets is why I think
in the biggest picture, they're happening.
So why are these transits happening?
The planets don't really give a pin
about the USA getting out of debt.
Or, you know, whether China's gonna be top dog.
Uranus, for example, is the spirit behind
democracy.
You know, the planet was sighted,
first sighted in the sky around
the American Revolution,
and so there's this correspondence there.
And the idea that Uranus in everybody's
individual chart is that person's impulse
towards individuation.
This radical idea, and you see,
it didn't happen until the 18th century
because the world mind wasn't ready for it.
That's why it wasn't discovered until then.
So, you realize that, it's a modern sensibility,
relative to human, you know, 200,000 years
on the planet, that represents the potential
every person has, and every country has.
To believe that each individual has a voice.
And that's coming up against Pluto.
And they're equally weighted.
So when the fur flies, who you gonna put your,
your heart behind and that's what
I'm saying in terms of, to know.
Uranus can also be crazy, chaotic,
running around, and technology run a muck.
A society governed by technology,
rather than the other way around.
Well, I think we see the evidence
for that everywhere.
There's evidence everywhere, but it's about
which one we want to create.
And speaking of that,
when you're talking about technology running
the country instead of the other way around,
that brings me to something I'm very intrigued with,
which is the younger generation of the 20-somethings.
Yeah.
Now, are they the Libra generation?
The 20-somethings?
I don't, well, you mean Pluto being in a
certain sign?
Yeah,
was Pluto in a--
I'm not sure, I'd have to look it up.
Yeah, whatever they are,
the thing that seems to be expressed through them is
connection and transparency.
It's almost as though, yes, we look at all
the material aspects of life.
Everybody has to have their new, you know,
iPhone and whatever.
But it really seems they're about connection.
That's very interesting.
Yes,
and they're, transparency is endemic to it.
They don't, I was talking with some 20-somethings
the other day and they're, you got the whole range
of the typical arguments, which is,
well, so what if some of our rights are
taken away if you don't have anything to hide?
But from their point of view,
that's not just naivety speaking,
they're so transparent,
That's very interesting.
already
in what they do and the way they
choose to see each other and be seen.
Whether it's through, you know,
Facebook or whatnot--
Completely different than our generation.
Completely different.
And for interological
And so what happens
yeah.
wiring.
So what happens when you have
a young generation that's coming into
some really prime energy, and some of them
are directing it toward the Occupy movement.
But what is the beauty and hope in that generation,
in these times, where connection and transparency rules?
I think that's very well said, and I think that we
go back to this idea, which is fundamental
in this type of astrology, which is that those
outer planet placements that they have in
their charts, set them up for a certain
set of emphases, for a certain set of
understandings that they have that our
generation didn't have.
Not just skills, but something that we
almost don't have English words for,
which is a certain evolutionary blueprint,
that is in them, that is mandated by
when they were born, so that when they got
to a certain age, say the Saturn return,
when they're 30, and coming into their prime
responsible consciousness, that the world would be
at a certain place, and their particular skills
and interests, like you say, the Sanford and Son
transparency, would naturally be brought to bear
on what the collective needs to happen,
at that time.
Which it had other problems when we were young.
We didn't know from ecology ,
we didn't even have the word for it.
We were just into don't litter.
Right, right.
So then you had a generation,
that sort of began the environmentalist movement
and they had all this Virgo in their chart,
which is cleaning up, and so it became
cleaning up the earth on mass.
And then these ones who are even younger,
who I think are going to create a backlash
to the backlash.
I think they have the ingredients in their charts,
to en masse--
What's that mean?
The transparency is a backlash
to the corporatocracy and the kleptocracy.
And that's why they watch Jon Stewart
to get their news.
Because you can only laugh at it.
Right, that is very true.
Hey, it's as viable as any other new source.
Absolutely.
Probably
more so in a lot of ways.
And I do think that, you know, they
have just not bought in at all.
No, they do not seem to have bought in.
They're more concerned with the creation
of their own realities.
So I think that's genetically wired,
hard-wired.
And that the planets revealed,
the outer planets reveal that these are
the ones that govern whole generations.
Interesting.
So, in looking at all of these factors in review,
what do you see as the most beautiful potential
that can be expressed in these times?
And we understand that this is a path
of consciousness for every person participating,
but in an ideal world, where we do wake up
to the possibilities at hand.
What do you see as the most beautiful
potential outcome?
It has to do with breaking through illusion
that has to be done.
I call it step one, unplug your TV.
Going inside and getting in touch,
as we were saying before,
with what you have that nobody else has.
What you know
that nobody else knows.
That's inner work.
And I think that none of the beautiful potentials
that we would like to see can happen without it.
This, by the way, just a little side note,
I'm thinking our generation wasn't
particularly good at that.
At least the activists, that's DS marches.
We thought that was naval basing and we didn't.
We were the other way, but these things swing,
like a pendulum.
So I think that the beautiful potential of
unprecedented crisis,
is that one is forced to wake up.
There can't be anymore superficial reforms
of the banking system,
if it's being done at the same level.
I mean, if it's being dictated by the lobbyists,
you're not going to get laws regulating lobbying.
So it's this old Einstein idea that you can't
change a system from within the system.
And I think that it's getting, so that we have to
have people outside of the system.
That, a huge radical break.
Once they've unplugged from the delusions
which are being spun out from the fog machine,
gotten in touch with who they are.
And I'm afraid that calamity is very good
at getting us in touch.
People respond to pain and pressure.
People will change overnight,
the world could change overnight.
And this water, this water thing
you mentioned earlier--
Neptune is going into Pisces to stay.
Does that mean literal we could
have some inundations or some--
Well we have had
when it was--
Yes.
When it dipped it's toe into Pisces,
which governs the oceans.
Last year, and then it went retrograde out.
But during the time it was in, we had floods.
And sea levels are rising anyway.
We can, we've mapped them out.
This is another kind of thing,
which isn't on the news.
They'd rather talk about little political squabbling.
But these are immensely important developments,
which, they come from the symbolism
of water on every level.
The literal level,
is that water disasters, tsunamis,
which we can hardly call freak anymore.
Their freak weather patterns are now becoming the norm.
Drinking water, clean water.
You know, right now, a lot of people in cities
are drinking sewage affluent,
that's been semi purified.
I know it's very crude to say that,
but this is really what's happening.
And we can't imagine that beings,
like humans that are 95% water,
are not gonna respond physiologically,
to taking in water that is that polluted.
So I think that the big deal is gonna be
water in many different ways.
And people who see this coming
are thinking in terms of, go back to the idea of value,
what really has value.
Clean water.
And food for the seven billion people
is going to come, this next calendar year,
to be seen as far more valuable than
gold, dollars, pound sterling.
Yes.
Stock quotes.
Arable land, too.
This is really breaking it down to essentials.
So I see, it's with great happiness,
that I watch some of these people
in the generation you're talking about,
going back to the land--
Oh, it's wonderful.
In a much more sophisticated way
than we old hippies did.
Absolutely.
The know their sense.
They have
technology, they know the science,
they've got their cool little earrings on,
and cool little boots on, and they're out there
with their fingers in the dirt doing, you know,
bio-dynamic gardening, for example.
They're taking it
That's becoming
common.
in school.
It's wonderful.
They know what they're doing.
And so this is another way we look at the
generational mandate, coming into it's own,
to answer to the crisis of the times.
There's nothing coming up that we can't deal with.
And if you just consider that,
that freeze, we are the 99%,
that's an awful lot more people than 1%.
Yes, it is.
There are
an awful lot of us.
On that note, any final thoughts,
that's a, kind of was a final thought,
and it was beautiful.
Any final comments you want to make about 2012?
On the Venus occultation--
And that was at
June 24th?
At June 5th,
June 5th.
June 5th, okay.
Alright.
The Uranus-Pluto square is June 24th.
All of June, right around the time of the summer solstice,
will be very magical.
How wonderful it would be,
if everyone go into their hearts,
which is the highest meaning of the planet Venus,
and started to let, let that as a meditation,
on a body level, on a spiritual level,
suggest to them the way that they could
take responsibility for being alive now.
To ground ourselves in our heart.
And June is a perfect opportunity.
The planets are all lined up to allow us to do that.
Well, you'll have to have a little celebration.
Definitely.
On that note, thank you so much.
As always, so eloquently put,
and I like the fact that you're not the
purveyor of hard predictions.
Because first of all, that only leads to embarrassment
in a lot of cases because we can't predict how
our consciousness and mass is going to
respond to all of these.
No, it's not just that we don't want to,
it's really not possible.
It's not possible.
So I love the way you present the information,
and thank you, just a few days before
the New Year for taking time to do this once again.
It's a pleasure.
While many people view these times
as a challenge and do not want to hear
what they feel is depressing news,
I view it as a golden invitation for
each of us to step into our authentic selves
and discern what we have to offer.
It will take a village and more to give birth
to a new paradigm of conscious living.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(tranquil music)